hello i'm keith kendrick magazine's
editor of bbc good food
i am here with chef rexter guzman
founder of touro turo london
a filipino street food store rex
features in our
good food world in your kitchen video
series demonstrating his delicious
chicken in a sal recipe
today he's going to tell us three things
we need to know
about filipino cooking so hi rex
what makes filipino cooking filipino
what are the three main ingredients
and how do you cook with them hi keith
thanks for having me
so i would say the the three ingredients
that make up authentic filipino food
would have to be
vinegar vinegar is used widely in our
cuisines as
it's used to preserve a lot of our food
but it also adds a lot of the sour
flavors
to our cuisine i would say the second
ingredient would probably be
garlic garlic is probably in
99 of our dishes and it just offers that
umami feel to most of our cooking the
third ingredient i'd say that
is quite unique to obviously is bug it's
a fermented shrimp paste
it's very similar to a fish sauce like a
thai fish sauce
and we use that to add a lot of depth to
our dishes
can i ask you about their bagon is it is
it easily available or do you have to
make it yourself
it's quite it's a long process to make
it yourself you can do it yourself but i
would say it takes quite a long time you
can
find other on product products in
a few local chinese supermarkets if not
there are actually a few filipino stores
in and around london that do sell it so
does it ask
add a very kind of a you know umami
savoriness to dishes yeah absolutely
that's the whole point of it it's it's
like i said it's like our fish sauce so
it gives that that kind of pungent here
and it does change the dish quite quite
well quite a lot it's really great that
sounds really interesting and
can i also ask you about vinegar any
particular type of vinegar because i've
got quite a few vinegars in my
my cupboard and you you use it for
marinating use it for tenderizing you
also use it for flavor is there an ideal
one the term that we could we could use
and cook ourselves
so back home in the philippines we would
use vinegars such as coconut vinegar or
sugarcane vinegar these are vinegars
that are made in the philippines using
the local produce
so here in the uk you could use a
substitute like cider vinegar
or you could also use even a chinese
rice vinegar
to to to use it as a marinade or for
cooking well
so there we have it three essential
ingredients vinegar garlic and butter
finally rex what's your favorite
filipino dish
my favorite all-time filipino dish would
have to be called panzip
which is something that my my mom would
cook a lot for me
it's basically a a noodle dish a rice
noodle dish
that has a pork a sort of a pork and
prawn sauce
so it's made using the the shells of the
prawns
and then you cook pork inside that sauce
and then it has
a whole range of toppings of seafood so
like
mussels smoked mackerel prawns of course
and then it has crispy toppings like
crispy
pork crackling spring onions eggs so
it's a really it's one of those
dishes that has like loads of loads of
different toppings and
like it's one of those just kind of
compositing foods for me that sounds
absolutely incredible i have to say
so thanks for x and don't forget to
check out rex's spicy sour grilled
chicken
in a sal recipe on good foods world in
your kitchen
and his website is chef rex the guzman
dot co dot uk chef rex the guzman dot co
dot uk
i hope i've got that right rex thanks
very much for joining me bye for now
bye-bye thank you